Azure Repos :

Source code : what developers are devloped for the application code.
Source code managemnet : we can able to track the source code activities.

SCM tools / VCS tools : Source code managemnet tools / version control system tools.
We have a 2 types of VCS are availble.

1. Centralized VCS :
   It is act as a Client-server model.
   server always be online.
   source code activity history we can not trace.
   example : Subversion (svn), Team foundation server ( TFS)

2. Distributed VCS :
   In this DVCS each and every developer have their own copy of data.
   It supports both offline and online operations.
   source code activity history we can trace.
   example : Github, Azure Repos,Bitbucket,gitlab

What is your SCM / VCS / DVCS : Azure Repos.

If you want to work on the SCM tools we need to install 4 softwares in your laptop.

1. Visual Studio 2019 Community Edition
2. Visual Studio code
3. Git 
4. Github account.

Any developer wants to develop a application code they must use the IDE's.
IDE : Integrated Developemnt Environemnts.

Visual Studio : ASP.NET Projects developements purpose.
Visual Studio code : With the help of this one we can able to develop any type of application code.
Notepadd++ :
Atom : 
Ecclipse :Java Projects 

Installation of Softwares :

1. Visual Studio 2019 Community Edition.
   https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/
   

2. Visual Studio code :
    https://code.visualstudio.com/download

3. Git 
https://git-scm.com/download/win   

4. Github account.
https://github.com/


Difference between the Git and github :

Git vs git hub :
Git = Bank Account
Github = Bank

Git : Git is A software
    :  Git is a Vesrion control
    : we need to install in local system.
    : we needs perform CLI operations
    : By using we can able to track the changes.
    : open source Licenes

Git Hub : Github is a service.
        : Github is a Vesrion control system.
        : we can able to access via Internet ( www.github.com)
        : we can able to perform GUI operations.
        : we can able to store the Repositories.
        : it supports both the Licenes like free and Enterprise.

Git : Version is 2.35.1
    : https://git-scm.com/download/win
    : we can able to find 3 ways to perform the Git operations
      1. Git Bash : we can able to runlinux commends & windows.
      2. Git CMD : we can able to do git operations via windo


Task : i want to deposit my money into bank.

1. How much money i want to deposit.
2. Go to Bank
3. Ask the Deposit form
4. Filling the Deposit form 
5. Handover the cashier
6. Take the receipt.

I want to move my local repos code into remote Repositories.
we have a 3 phases in Git.

1. Working Area
2. Staging Area
3. Remote Repositories.

How do you create a empty / Local Repositories : git Init.
Git init - iniatilized the empy Repositories & create a .git folder this will store the all the application acvities 
           history i.e. act as a Local database.
Git add - git add --all ( including hidden files )
          git add < filename >
          git add . ( Except the Hidden files)
Git status : 
Git commit -m "Messgag" 
Git config :
   
    Set your username: git config --global user.name "Lenka Sureshkumar"
    Set your email address: git config --global user.email "sureshkumar@gmail.com"


Task : 

Move your local Repositories to Remote Repositories ( Bitbucket)
Bitbucket Signup











